Hi Stu, 

I am happy to have you as a co-author. Thanks again for your comments
and questions. I have listed the answers to your questions below. 
I have gone though most of them except for the point about the systematics
error. I need a bit more time to answer this point, so please give a
bit more time.  I'll get to it soon. 

Ryuichi

-------------------------------------------------------------------
My first comment is a general one, which is that you might want to discuss
the possibility that some of your binary candidates are actually pulsating
objects. Pulsation has *not* been observed to date in young VLM stars and
BDs, but is theoretically predicted (Palla & Barraffe 2005, A&A, 432, 57).
RV variations could be as high as 6km/s for pulsations, but I think you can
rule it out as periods are 1-5 hours so you would expect to see variations
between the RV values you took for each object on the same night. In fact,
the lack of rapid RV variability is an interesting result in itself.


  * I will try to put this in somewhere in the paper (maybe in the
    discussion section or in conclusion).
    
  * Where did you get 6km/s from? I did not find it in the paper you
    mentioned above.


Science
--------

1) What is the largest systematic error which is *NOT* compatible with your
chisq histogram? The value of 0.2 km/s used in section 4 seems plucked out
of thin air. It is important to know what systematic error
you can rule out, as it has such a strong effect on what binary fraction you
claim.

   * Please let me investigate a bit more on this. If you can think of
     anything that I can do find the size of systematic error, please
     let me know.... I will get back to you on this point later. 


2) When calculating the underlying binary fraction, isn't the text
description the wrong way round? Pb(x,n,p) is the probability of finding x
positive events out of n trials, with each trial having a probability p of a
positive event in each trial. It seems to me that you've measured x, and n
and want to know the underlying value of p. In other words setting p to be
4/17 and plotting Pb(x) seems like the wrong thing to do. Rather, you should
set x to be 4, n to be 17 and plot Pb(p). In fact, I wonder if this is what
you actually *have* done, as it gives a identical answer for the binary
fraction to that reported in your paper.

   * I did what I said in the paper. I was wrong. It was a wrong way
     around. I fixed the statement, and recomputed the fraction along
     with the uncertainties. The result is exactly the same. I corrected
     the sentences in the paper as you mentioned above. 


Note that, as which all things statistical, I'm not confident I'm right
here!  

   * Don't forget that about the quantum mechanics too, your exact
     location is known with only a certain probability.   

Typos
-----

Abstract - at *the* VLT
   * corrected 

Abstract - Chameleon I (Cha), previously studied by others (or omit
previously studied by others altogether)

   * Removed "previously studied by others altogether."

Introduction - while f=15 percent was determined by Close et al (in the
field?, at what mass?)

   * 0.03--0.1 Msun. Sp.type = M8.0--L0.5.
   * I have added this info in the sentence as 
     " while f = 15 per cent (for the field objects with 0.03--0.1
       Msun and M8.0--L0.5) was determined by Close et al(2003) ..."


Introduction - for a small sample (12)

   * ??? That is what I had there. You mean I should say "for a small
     (12) sample of ..."?  That sounds better, so I replaced it.


Introduction - is ther Basri & Reiners result for young stars or the field?

   * The observation of Basri & Reiners (2006) is consist of  field
     objects only,  but in his analysis section he combined his
     results with the results from 
     1. Guenther & Wuchterl (2003, A&A, 401, 677)  
           -- Some are in clusters and some are in field
     2. Joergens (2005, Rev. Mod. Astron, 18, 201) I did not find this
           reference in ADS, but I think she used the same data as in 
	   Joergens (2001, A&A, 379, L9)
           -- in Cha I
     3. Close et al (2003)
	   -- field objects
     4. Bouy et al (2003)
          --  field objects 

     


Introduction - primaries is 30au (Duquennoy & Mayor 1991)

   * Corrected.

Introduction - pioneering works on the RVs

   * Corrected

Section 3.2 - UScoOB objects and a log-normal fit (otherwise it implies the
same log-normal fit as for the UScoOB objects)

   * Corrected.

Section 3.2 - vsini distribution of 14 higher mass T Tauri stars (I know
it's a tautology, but I got confused without it)

   * I see what you mean. Corrected.

Section 4 - by the time separation of the RV measurements used in the

   * Corrected.

Section 4 - is negligibly small for young VLM objects with

   * Corrected.


