From cg@ras.org.uk Fri Mar 24 09:49:58 2006 Date: Fri, 24 Mar 2006
04:49:56 -0500 (EST) From: cg@ras.org.uk To: rk@astro.ex.ac.uk
Subject: MNRAS: MN-06-0158-MJ

Dear Dr Kurosawa

I attach the reviewer's comments on your manuscript entitled "On the
formation of H|*alpha*| line emission around classical T Tauri stars",
ref. MN-06-0158-MJ, which you submitted to Monthly Notices of the
Royal Astronomical Society.

The reviewer has recommended moderate revision of your manuscript
before it is reconsidered for publication.

You should submit your revised version, together with your response to
the reviewer's comments via the Monthly Notices Manuscript Central
site http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/mnras .  Enter your Author
Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under
"Manuscripts with Decisions."  Under "Actions," click on "Create a
Revision."  Your manuscript reference will be appended to denote a
revision.

IMPORTANT: do not submit your revised manuscript as a new paper!

You will not be able to make your revisions to the originally
submitted files of the manuscript held on Manuscript Central.
Instead, you must delete the original files and abstract and replace
them with your revised files.  Check that any requests for colour
publication or online-only publication are correct.  Proof read the
resulting PDF and HTML files that are generated carefully.

When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond
to the comments made by the reviewer in the space provided.  You
should also use this space to document any changes you make to the
original manuscript.  In order to expedite the processing of the
revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response
to the reviewer.

Because we are trying to facilitate timely publication of manuscripts
submitted to MNRAS, your revised manuscript should be uploaded
promptly. If you do not submit your revision within six months, we may
consider it withdrawn and request it be resubmitted as a new
submission.

I look forward to receiving your revised manuscript.

Regards,

Miss Claire Geeson Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society


Reviewer's Comments:

I found the manuscript "On the formation of Halpha line emission
around classical T Tauri stars" by Kurosawa et al. very
interesting. The paper is in general clearly written and presents new
model results.

To my knowledge, it is the first time that calculations of emission
line profiles have been done for classical T Tauri stars, taking into
account both the magnetosphere and wind contributions consistently. I
think these calculations really needed to be done and the results
presented in this paper clarify our understanding of the accretion and
ejection importance to CTTSs.

In my opinion, the observations are showing that CTTSs should be
described by models that include magnetosphere, disc wind, accretion
powered stellar wind and disc contributions together. As a suggestion
for a future study, you may be able to calculate such models and
directly compare your results with the observations.

I liked your discussion about the spectroscopic classification by
Reipurth et al., trying to infer the physical conditions to reproduce
each type of profile. But CTTSs vary a lot, and often change from one
profile type to another. It would be interesting, in a future work, to
a look at such variabilities and see if they are consistent with the
changes in physical conditions predicted by the models.

I have many questions and suggestions. They are listed in two parts,
the more general comments first and the minor ones in the end.

***** General comments

Introduction, 3rd paragraph: The blue-ward asymmetric emission is
generated in magnetospheric accretion models not only by the
occultation of the flow by the stellar photosphere, which occults
mostly high velocity blue-shifted material, but also by the
occultation of part of the receding flow by the inner disk, which
occults mostly low velocity redshifted emission. Both effects (lack of
low velocity red-shifted emission and lack of high velocity
blue-shifted emission) contribute to generate the blue-ward asymmetry.

Section 2.1, 1st paragraph: The adopted parameters of a typical
classical T Tauri star are listed in Table 1. I think that a mass
accretion rate of 10^-8 Msun/yr is much more representative of a
typical CTTS than 10^-7 Msun/yr. The values you adopted as typical for
both Macc and Mwind rates are actually quite high compared to what is
usually measured (see for ex. Gullbring et al. 1998). It is true that
some CTTSs present such high Macc and Mwind rate values, but these are
only a few. This is just a comment and does not invalidate your
results since you ended up calculating profiles for Macc = 10^-7,
10^-8 and 10^-9 Msun/yr, which clearly encompasses the whole range of
measured Macc rates in CTTSs.

Section 2.1, 2nd paragraph: A better reference to the accretion schock
characteristics would be Calvet & Gullbring (1998) ApJ 509, 802 and
Gullbring et al. (2000) ApJ 544, 927, instead of Konigl (1991) and
Hartmann et al. (1994).

In this paragraph you obtain about 8% of the stellar surface covered
by hot rings. This is quite a large value compared with the values
obtained by Gullbring & Calvet in the papers cited above, which range
rather from 0.1% to 1% for several CTTSs. But this could be due to the
fact that you are using a large Macc rate (10^-7 Msun/yr) for a
CTTS. Does this affect your results ? Was the hot ring surface
coverage recalculated consistently when you computed models with 10^-8
Msun/yr and 10^-9 Msun/yr ? In that case, what values were used ?

Sect. 2.2, 3rd paragraph: You say that the results of Martin (1996)
qualitatively agree with those of Hartmann et al (1994). There is a
comment about that in the Muzerolle et al (1998) (ApJ 492, 743) paper
on page 751, where they also use the Hartmann et al (1994) law. They
say that the Martin (1996) temperature distribution is inadequate to
obtain line emission consistent with the observations, even at Halpha,
while their temperature distribution generates profiles that look like
the observed ones. So I think that you should not say that both
temperatures agree, even qualitatively.  It gives the idea that they
generate the same types of profiles, which is not true. The fact that
they do not agree is actually a big problem, since the Hartmann et
al. (1994) temperature structure, which is somewhat arbitrary,
reproduces the observed profiles, while the Martin (1996) temperature
structure, which was calculated consistently, does not. We are missing
some physics in there.

Sect. 2.3, 4th paragraph: I could not follow you in the end of the
paragraph. You have p=4*alpha*q and q = -1.15 from Whitney et
al. (2003). You say that in order to be consistent with Krasnopolsky
et al. (2003) who used p = -5/2, the value of alpha was set to
0.76. Well, alpha=p/(4*q)=-2.5/(4*(-1.15))=0.54 and not 0.76.

Sect. 4.1, 1st paragraph Tmax is not defined. I know it is the maximum
temperature of the accretion flow, but you must define it.

Sect. 4.1, 5th paragraph You say the EWs decrease as the inclination
increases mainly because the fraction of the accretion stream blocked
by the photosphere increases. I agree that the fraction of the
accretion stream blocked by the photosphere increases a lot as the
inclination increases (in Fig. 1, lower left funnel portion or z<0 and
x<0 for an observer looking from the upper right corner), but the
fraction blocked by the inner disk (at z<0 and x>0 in Fig. 1) also
increases a lot and contributes to the decrease in the EWs. The
photosphere mostly blocks blue-shifted material, while the inner disk
mostly blocks redshifted material.

Sect. 4.1, 6th paragraph I don't understand why the highest
red-shifted line-of-sight velocity is visible only at the high
inclination angles. Looking at Figure 1, at low inclinations (even at
i=0) we actually see all the highest red-shifted material of the upper
right funnel portion (z>0, x>0, for an observer looking from the upper
right corner). Actually, looking at the profiles in Fig. 5, I don't
see much of a change in the redshifted wing width (for example at v >
120 km/s) with the increase in inclination. The blue-shifted wing
changes more.

Sect. 4.2, end of 2nd paragraph: You comment that the blue edge of the
absorption component in the slowest wind acceleration model (beta=4.0)
is located close to line centre (~20 km/s). But you don't show
beta=4.0 models. Was that a mistake and you intended to say beta=2.0 ?
I think you should cite the blue edge absorption component velocity of
the fastest model shown in Fig.6, which is beta=2.0. It is easier for
the reader to be able to check in the figure what you are explaining
in the text, and you make your point in the same way.

Sect. 4.2, Table 4: Were does the value of p= -3/2 come from ? In
Section 2.3 you said you would be consistent with the model of
Krasnopolsky (2003) who used p= -5/2.

Sect. 4.2, 4th paragraph: The opening angle is measured from the
symmetry axis (z), then it should be given by theta_open=arctan(Rwi/d)
instead of theta_open=arctan(d/Rwi). High values of d correspond to
more collimated winds and therefore to smaller opening angles.

Sect. 4.2, end of 4th paragraph: You say that you used d=44 Rstar for
the disc wind models presented in the paper but Table 4 has d= 22
Rstar listed. Which one is correct ? If Table 4 is a summary of the
reference disc wind models used in Section 4.2, maybe you should not
list d=22 Rstar, since you actually varied d in that section. Either
you put the range of values used (from 2 Rstar to 88 Rstar, as in
Fig. 7) or you don't put any value for d in Table 4.

Sect. 4.2: A general comment on the wind models presented in this
section. Blandford & Payne (1982) showed that in order to launch a
wind magneto centrifugally, the poloidal component of the magnetic
field must make an angle of less than 60 degrees with the disk
surface. In order for that to be achieved in your model, you must have
(supposing a flat disc, which should be reasonable for the inner disk
regions):

d < Rw*tg(theta), where theta = 90 - theta_open = 60 degrees is the
angle between the field line and the disk surface (x axis).

This means that for Rw = Rwi = 3 Rstar, you must have d < 5.2 Rstar
and that for Rw = 1 au ~ 100 Rstar, you must have d < 173 Rstar

The last condition is clearly satisfied in all your models, since d is
always less than 173 Rstar. But the inner field lines, passing close
to Rwi, do not satisfy the Blandford & Payne (1982) condition, since
for that you would need to have d < 5.2 Rstar in all cases.

In other words, if you fixed d = 44 Rstar in the disc wind models
presented in the paper, as you say you did in the 4th paragraph of
Sect. 4.2, for the wind to be launched centrifugally according to
Blandford & Payne, the field lines must present Rw > d/tan(60), which
is Rw > 25.4 Rstar. This means that field lines from Rwi = 3 Rstar to
Rw = 25 Rstar will not be able to launch a wind magneto-centrifugally
with d=44 Rstar.

How do you launch the wind in the inner field line region ? If you
cannot launch a wind in that region, how does it affect your results ?

Sect. 4.3, 1st paragraph: You say the parameters used for the
magnetosphere are the same as in Fig.5, but in that figure you have
models with 3 different inclinations. Did you calculate models for the
three inclinations or just for i=55 degrees ? Please specify this in
the text.

Sect. 4.3, 5th paragraph: It is hard to see in Fig. 10 that the
position of minimum flux in the absorption moves blue-ward. I actually
don not see any difference between the models with mu=0.1 and 0.2.

Sect. 5.1, Type III-B: This is the most common profile type in the
Reipurth et al. (1996) sample but you only find it in you Macc = 10^-7
Msun/yr models, which is not a common or average value for Macc rate
in CTTSs. As said in some previous comment, CTTSs tend to have Macc =
10^-8 Msun/yr and only a few present Macc = 10^-7 Msun/yr. To what do
you attribute that discrepancy between the data and the models ?

Sect. 5.1, Type IV-R: In axisymmetric models (rotation and magnetic
axis aligned) the inverse P Cygni profile really restricts the
inclination angle to a small range. But there are observational
evidences (SU Aur: Johns & Basri 1995, AA Tau: Bouvier et al. 2003,
for example) for inclined magnetospheres and in that case you could
see the accretion shock through the fast moving accretion flow at
basically any inclination. It would only depend on a combination of
the rotation axis and magnetic axis inclinations. In Halpha, in
particular, it might still be difficult to see inverse P Cygni
profiles because of the wide emission wings due to broadening effects
(such as the Stark effect).

Sect. 5.2, 3rd paragraph: What is the mass loss rate used in the
stellar wind models ? This value should be added to the text. Matt &
Pudritz (2005) suggest 10^-9 Msun/yr to solve the angular momentum
problem.

***** Spells and other minor comments

Sect. 2.1, 2nd paragraph: ... and re-emitted optical and UV radiation.
Maybe rephrase as: ... and re-emitted as optical and UV radiation.

Sect. 2.2, 1st paragraph: Rmi and Rmo --> 2.2 Rsun and 3.0 Rsun should
be 2.2 Rstar and 3.0 Rstar

Sect. 2.3, 5th paragraph: The Rs value is set to 10 Rmi. Shouldn't it
be 10 Rwi, as in Table 4 ?

Sect. 2.3, caption of Figure 2: ...the density is approximately
proportional to ~ l^2 It looks like ~ l^-2

Sect. 3, last paragraph: ...the dust property described in Section 10. 
¨Section 10¨ should be ¨Section 2.4.2¨

Sect. 4.2, caption of Figure 7: The 88 Rstar model is represented by a
solid line and not by a dash-dotted line as written.

In the same caption, "opening angel" should be "opening angle"

Sect. 4.3, 4th paragraph: "Figures 6" should be "Fig. 6"

Sect. 4.3, 5th paragraph: ...the flux peak increase and ...  ¨increase¨ 
should be ¨increases¨

Sect. 4.3, caption of Figure 11: The parameter used for the
magnetosphere are....  ¨parameter¨ should be ¨parameters¨

Sect. 5.2, 4th paragraph: The sentece below must be rewritten: ...This
tendency (...) holds for the models with this wind models for wide
ranges of beta...

