From cg@ras.org.uk Tue Aug 15 11:24:22 2006
Date: Tue, 15 Aug 2006 06:24:13 -0400 (EDT)
From: cg@ras.org.uk
To: rk@astro.ex.ac.uk
Subject: MNRAS: MN-06-0888-MJ

Dear Dr Kurosawa

I attach the reviewer's comments on your manuscript entitled "Radial and rotational velocities of young brown dwarfs and very low-mass stars in the Upper Scorpius OB association and the |*rho*| Ophiuchi cloud core", ref. MN-06-0888-MJ, which you submitted to Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society.

Moderate revision of your manuscript is requested before it is reconsidered for publication.

You should submit your revised version, together with your response to the reviewer's comments via the Monthly Notices Manuscript Central site http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/mnras .
Enter your Author Centre, where you will find your manuscript title listed under "Manuscripts with Decisions."  Under "Actions," click on "Create a Revision."  Your manuscript reference will be appended to denote a revision.  

IMPORTANT: do not submit your revised manuscript as a new paper!

You will not be able to make your revisions to the originally submitted files of the manuscript held on Manuscript Central.  Instead, you must delete the original files and abstract and replace them with your revised files.  Check that any requests for colour publication or online-only publication are correct.  Proof read the resulting PDF and HTML files that are generated carefully.

When submitting your revised manuscript, you will be able to respond to the comments made by the reviewer in the space provided.  You should also use this space to document any changes you make to the original manuscript.  In order to expedite the processing of the revised manuscript, please be as specific as possible in your response to the reviewer.

Because we are trying to facilitate timely publication of manuscripts submitted to MNRAS, your revised manuscript should be uploaded promptly. If you do not submit your revision within six months, we may consider it withdrawn and request it be resubmitted as a new submission.

I look forward to receiving your revised manuscript.

Regards,

Miss Claire Geeson
Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society



Reviewer's Comments:

Referee report for MNRAS manuscript MN-06-0888-MJ
Radial and rotational velocities of young brown dwarfs and very 
low-mass stars in the Upper Scorpius OB association and the rho 
Ophiuchi cloud core 

This is a fairly straightforward presentation of results of a two-epoch 
radial-velocity survey for binarity among a sample of young brown dwarfs 
and very low-mass stars. The paper is for the most part well written. The 
paper will be suitable for publication after some moderate revision to 
clarify some essential aspects of the analysis. 

Important points:

1) Several aspects of the analysis remain unclear, specifically with 
respect to the determination of radial velocity variations, which is 
of course the most important component of the paper. 

a) Most importantly, the precise meaning of sigma_rrv (i.e. column 5 
of table 2) is not clear. How is this different from the uncertainties 
listed directly with the radial velocity measurements in column 4? It 
is stated that sigma_rrv is "the uncertainty of RV with respect to 
the template star," but aren't the RVs in column 4 also determined 
with respect to the template star? Perhaps the authors mean to say 
that the uncertainties on the individual RVs include the uncertainty
on the template star's absolute RV, whereas the sigma_rrv values do not?
This is important for understanding the entire analysis, and must be
clarified.

b) How was the radial-velocity template star observed, and when? I 
presume that the template was observed with the same instrument and setup
as the targets, but this should be stated explicitly if so, and
relevant observational details should be provided as well.

c) Why is the quoted uncertainty on the tested standard star so large
(0.62 km/s) compared to the typical uncertainties listed in table 2 for
the targets? I would have thought that the standard star's RV would be 
more precisely determined, as it presumably has higher S/N. I suspect
there is a simple explanation for this, but without an explanation I 
began to doubt the better precisions quoted for most of the targets.

d) The explanation of the accuracy of the RV measurements needs to be
improved. The entire experiment is predicated on the idea that the RV's
from the two epochs do not suffer from large systematic errors, but the
paper as written makes it very difficult for the skeptical reader to be
so reassured. In Sec 2, the authors state that autoguiding errors limit
the accuracy of the RVs to 1 km/s, but promise that their tests in Sec
3.1 of an RV standard star show the systematic error to be very small. 
However, the test in Sec 3.1 does not show this. In fact, the authors
find an RV for that star that is 0.82 km/s different from the value
published by the Elodie group. More importantly, even if the agreement
with the published value were better, a single-epoch measurement does
not by itself prove system stability. It seems to me that the authors'
claim to negligible systematic errors is really based on the claim that
the distribution of chi-squared probabilities in closely matches the 
expected distribution (Fig 2). The authors essentially end up saying
this in the paper, but obliquely in the 6th paragraph of Sec 3.1, and
more directly in the penultimate paragraph of Sec 4. This text should
be consolidated, placed sooner in the text, and the statement in Sec 2
should be modified to explicitly connect the claim of accuracy to the
chi-squared distribution.

e) Regarding the distribution of chi-squared probabilities (Fig 2), is
the match with the expected distribution really that good? For example, 
it appears possible that the left-most bin is low compared to the 
dashed line, but this may not be significant. Can this be quantified 
statistically? 

2) Is the binary fraction determined here potentially biased (to
a higher value) by virtue of the magnitude-limited nature of the 
target selection? The authors do state that the sample is not 
complete, and in the final paragraph of the paper they state that 
volume-limited surveys are preferable. But I think the authors should 
comment explicitly (perhaps in Sec 4 or 5) in this with respect to 
their study.


Minor points:

1) Explain what is meant by "variance spectra" in Sec 3.1, paragraph 3.

2) 1 percent should be 0.1 percent in Sec 3.1, paragraph 5.

3) In Fig 2 caption, the statement that the dashed line is "based on
the RV uncertainties in the observations" is incorrect, I think. The
chi-squared probability distribution depends only on the number of
degrees of freedom (1 in this case), no? The vertical scaling of the
figure is then just the total number of objects, right?





